HUK loading for nrf9160 and nrf5340 (#4516)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: include/hw_unique_key.rst

.. _lib_hw_unique_key:

Hardware unique key
###################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The hardware unique key library manages symmetric root keys on devices with the Arm CryptoCell security subsystem.

Functionality
*************

Hardware unique keys (HUKs) are device-specific keys that can be used with functions for key derivation to generate other keys.
The generated keys can then be used by applications for symmetric encryption or authentication.

> By using HUKs, you can let your application use multiple keys without having to store them on the device, as they can be recreated from a HUK when needed.

Reviewer: Maybe change "recreated" to "derived" to put more emphasis on the key derivation function

Note: You do have to "store" the label information to be able to recreate the keys. generally the label information can be kept in code, so storing is not necessarily the right term

I don't know how much we need to explain this in the current context so I leave it up to you what is necessary to state here

Author: ```suggestion
By using HUKs, you can let your application use multiple keys without having to store them on the device, as they can be recreated from a HUK, using a static label, when needed.
```

Reviewer 2: fixed

.. note::
   You should use hardware unique keys only for key derivation, but never directly for symmetric encryption or authentication.

> The library supports up to 3 different HUKs:

Reviewer: "Supports up to 3 different HUKs" is probably not specific enough. 

What about something like:

"Supports three different kinds of HUK keys, depending on device type":

Reviewer 2: fixed

* Device root key (KDR).
  It can be used for deriving general-purpose keys.

>   It must be written to a specific KDR register in the Arm CryptoCell CC310.

Author: We need more text here, since there is an API i this library to do this, and the B0 calls this function when it runs (and CONFIG_HW_UNIQUE_KEY is enabled in B0).

Author: @FrancescoSer Added some text.

* Master key encryption key (MKEK).
  It is used for deriving Key Encryption Keys (KEKs), which are used to encrypt other keys when these are stored.
* Master key for encrypting external storage (MEXT).
  It is used to derive keys for encrypting data in external non-secure storage.

See the following table for an overview of the key types supported by each device:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Device
      - CryptoCell version
      - Key Management Unit
      - Supported HUK types
    * - nRF9160
      - CC310
      - Yes
      - KDR, MKEK, MEXT
    * - nRF5340
      - CC312
      - Yes
      - MKEK, MEXT
    * - nRF52840
      - CC310
      - No
      - KDR only

In devices with a Key Management Unit (KMU), like nRF9160 or nRF5340, the keys reside in reserved slots in the KMU itself.
The KMU can make the keys non-readable and non-writable from the application, but accessible by the Arm CryptoCell.

In devices without a KMU, like nRF52840, the bootloader writes the key to the Arm CryptoCell and locks the flash memory page where the key is stored.
In this case, only one key is supported.

> 

Author: We should probably have details here about how to use the keys via cc3xx_platform, or at least link to some documentation.

Author: @FrancescoSer @frkv added link to cc3xx_platform readme.

Prerequisites
*************

To use hardware unique keys, you must first write them to the KMU or program them in the device firmware if no KMU is present.
You can also write the HUKs by programming the device with a debugger.

The library provides a function for writing arbitrary keys and a function for writing random keys.

.. caution::
   It is strongly recommended to generate random keys on-chip to avoid any outside knowledge of the keys.

>    However, if the application needs a specific key that the manufacturer also knows, and this key is also unique to the device, do not provide such a key as a HUK.

Author: I think "However" gives the wrong impression here, since the previous sentence applies here as well.

.. _lib_hw_unique_key:

Hardware unique key
###################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The hardware unique key library manages symmetric root keys on devices with the Arm CryptoCell security subsystem.

Functionality
*************

Hardware unique keys (HUKs) are device-specific keys that can be used with functions for key derivation to generate other keys.

> The generated keys can then be used by applications for symmetric encryption or authentication.

Author: ```suggestion
The generated keys can then be used by applications for symmetric cryptographic operations.
```

Reviewer 2: fixed

The library supports up to 3 different HUKs:

* Device root key (KDR).
  It can be used for deriving general-purpose keys.
  On each boot it must be written to a specific KDR register in the Arm CryptoCell CC310.
  This is done via :c:func:`hw_unique_key_load_kdr`.
  The nRF Secure Immutable Bootloader does this automatically if :option:`CONFIG_HW_UNIQUE_KEY` is enabled in the bootloader.
* Master key encryption key (MKEK).
  It is used for deriving Key Encryption Keys (KEKs), which are used to encrypt other keys when these are stored.
  It is provided to CryptoCell when it is used.
* Master key for encrypting external storage (MEXT).
  It is used to derive keys for encrypting data in external non-secure storage.
  It is provided to CryptoCell when it is used.

See the following table for an overview of the key types supported by each device:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Device
      - CryptoCell version
      - Key Management Unit
      - Supported HUK types
    * - nRF9160
      - CC310
      - Yes
      - KDR, MKEK, MEXT
    * - nRF5340
      - CC312
      - Yes

>       - MKEK, MEXT

Author: 53 needs to support KDR as well (destination address is the same as for MKEK and MEXT)
